---
title: "Introverted and Extroverted Personalities"
date: 2023-11-28T14:03:04-05:00
tags: ["ICT in the News", "Introvert", "Extrovert", "Information"]
author: "Alex Head"
draft: false
---
[Link to article 1](https://www.mindbodygreen.com/articles/introvert-vs-extrovert)

[Link to article 2](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2023/07/12/rebecca-makkai-post-pandemic-covid-introvert-extrovert/)



I researched recent news articles that are related to Introverted and Extroverted personalities. I believe this topic can appeal to a number of different audiences. This news article is more of a contrast between both personality traits. Although I think the images of the parts of the brain are cool, I dislike the colorig, mainly because it’s hard for me to read. However, this infographic does have relevant information, which includes personality traits for each type. This article goes into great detail about what each personality trait truly means, gives examples of each trait, what makes someone extroverted and introverted, and how both personality types can work together in order to solve problems together. The target audience is generally the entire population, which I think could be narrowed down to a more sophisticated audience, such as comparing these two personality types with boys and girls. This article is related to extroverted and introverted personalities, and is empathetic towards mental health issues, and tries to come up with creative and fun solutions to realizing which type you are, as well as traits that represent each type of personality. I read an article from our class regarding empathy, and this article has assertiveness, because it deals hands-on with each personality type and goes into great detail about how and why people are extroverts and introverts. The Thai article also has a very large target audience and makes that known throughout this news article. Key differences are explained at the end of this article, as well as a list Frequently Asked Questions that might be related to the topic. Another cool feature that I found helpful is the Listening tool, which allows viewers of this news article to listen to it instead of reading it. This fits perfectly with my visual impairment ideas, and I can relate to having issues reading long news articles. Although it was tough for me to find a news related article to extroverted and introverted personalities, I think that this article I found it absolutely relevant to many people struggling with mental health issues, as well as those who struggle to work with people who hay be opposite of them as it relates to personality types. 



After doing more extensive research regarding differences between introverts and extroverts, as well as expanding the research into my infographic, and adding boys and girls into the research and into my created infographic. According to keydiferences.com when a person is very reserved and does not open up or socialize easily, he or she is considered an introvert. However, when a person is social, very talkative, and makes friends easily and quickly, he or she is considered an extrovert. I also found introverts find spending time alone enjoyable, they prefer small and more intimate gatherings, tend to process his or her thoughts before expressing them out loud, tend to have a smaller group of friends, spend more time reflecting on different outcomes before coming to final decisions, and introverts are more in need of downtime before and after socializing with a group of people. Extroverts feel energized and refreshed after attending social gatherings, when a big event occurs, extroverts want to text or call a friend or family member to discuss it, prefers working in groups than individually, enjoys talking to complete strangers and feels comfortable around them, as well as having hobbies that mainly revolve around social gatherings and events. Extroverts are much more social and outgoing as well. According to the same article on ie.com there are advantages and disadvantages to each personality type. I thought mentioning some advantages and disadvantages of each trail could also help to add even more information to my infographic. After reading through this research article, I found the information to pass the famous CRAAP test. The information is Current, based on the date of publication, the information regarding introverted and extroverted personalities definitely has relevance, because it can relate to males and females, young and old. Authority is present in this research article due to the confidence in the author’s findings, use of great examples and the pros and cons to each of the two personality types. I believe the author of this research article is more of a creative thinker, because he gives relevant information, but also expands his findings, while placing the two personality traits into pros and cons, as well as some advantages and disadvantages to each personality type.

	

The news article I decided to use is very creative and provides a broader range of information: extensive research into each personality trait,  and examples are used in an organized form, and the information is mostly in third person. I found the article represents both genders, key traits for each personality type, large, bold letters for heading and the writing is easy for me to read and understand. I think the background information could be changed to maybe something that stands out more. Due to me being visually impaired, it’s important that I’m clearly able to see all aspects of an infographic, as well as all of the information included. I feel that the text size could be a bit larger, although I understand the need to make it smaller, in order to include as much key facts and information related to both personality types. After reviewing course concepts on bias or spin, I thought I might find Spin Bias, which is ​​spin is a form of propaganda, achieved through knowingly providing a biased interpretation of an event or campaigning to influence public opinion about some organization or public figure. This infographic doesn’t contain another popular bias, which is omission bias, refers to our tendency to react more strongly to harmful actions than to harmful inactions, and judge them to be less moral. I couldn't find any biases present, although the infographic could use updated information in order to improve the overall creation and to read a larger target audience. I wanted to pick a topic and news article that truly tried to help people with mental health issues, rather than find a gossip news story that spreads odd information about these two personality traits simply for the author’s own gain. I think this article is very relevant in society today, anc can truly help many people who are struggling with mental health issues and those who are unaware of what makes them extroverted or introverted personalities. I found this assignment to be interesting and a fun way to learn even more about extrovert and introvert personality types. 



I felt that my first article was very informative and has a great target audience. Although, I wanted to find another article that was a bit more news worthy, and talk briefly about it. I found it helpful to myself and others to find an article filled with factual information to help people better understand each personality trait. I also wanted to find a newsworthy article that was related to my topic. I chose to find another article that was more news related and current; and I found an article that discusses how COVID-19 impacted both extroverts and introverts. This article is an opinion piece written for The Washington Post; and most of the article is in first-person, the author does try her best to relate to a certain target audience, coronavirus patients who also deal with mental health issues. Going back and reading the Listening to Understand helped me get more information out of this second article, as well as find an article that relates to my topic and an article that is very current in the news cycle. Since this is an opinion piece, I found the author to be a bit biased towards people diagnosed with Covid-19. However, she’s also mindful of all who struggle with mental health. Empathy is very relevant to both news articles I found. Although it was hard to find an actual news article related to my topic, I found a perfectly timed article for the COVid-19 society we all live in, and the informative article shows empathy. Literature review shows these two articles to have Gain framing, positive message framing, and provides valuable information that’s not meant to be malicious, disinformation or violent. Positive messaging helps the authors Cole up with great solutions that can truly help people struggling to know his/her personality type, as well as impactful strategies to work with people with the opposite personality type and traits that are associated with each type.



After reading class modules on Linguistics and the importance of messaging and disinformation, I found these two articles to have specific target audiences, no obvious bias or disinformation was present in the two articles regarding mental health. 


# Articles and Citations

Are you an introvert or extrovert? here’s the difference, from experts. mindbodygreen. (n.d.). https://www.mindbodygreen.com/articles/introvert-vs-extrovert
Makkai, R. (2023, July 24). Opinion | covid flipped the introvert-extrovert script. and I hate it. The Washington Post. https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2023/07/12/rebecca-makkai-post-pandemic-covid-introvert-extrovert/ 

Aubin, C. St. (2023, July 20). Most Americans favor restrictions on false information, violent content online. Pew Research Center. https://www.pewresearch.org/short-reads/2023/07/20/most-americans-favor-restrictions-on-false-information-violent-content-online/

Gandhi, H. (2022, June 24). Impact of linguistic choice of words in news articles on our society. Medium. https://medium.com/@hramachandran/impact-of-linguistic-choice-of-words-in-news-articles-105122d099a5


Scheibenzuber, C., Neagu, L., Ruseti, S., Artmann, B., Bartsch, C., Kubik, M., Dascalu, M., Trausan-Matu, S., & Nistor, N. (2022). Fake news framing, emotion, argumentation, and dialogic social knowledge building in online discussions: An exploration on including natural language processing data. International Society of the Learning Sciences. https://repository.isls.org/bitstream/1/8322/1/CSCL2022_415-418.pdf

Kim, J., Wang, Y., Ma, L., & Chatham, A. (2022). Engaging the public in disaster communication: The effect of message framing on sharing intentions for social media posts. International Journal of Strategic Communication, 16(4), 649-662. https://doi.org/10.1080/1553118X.2022.2033979
