---
title: "Theo Von on Mental Health"
date: 2023-12-4T09:11:16-04:00
tags: ["Theo Von", "Alex Head", "Mental health", "Media Recommendation"]
author: Alex Head
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

# This Past Weekend with Theo Von
<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/wyx9sTBkRyQ" title="Door to Door | This Past Weekend w/ Theo Von #452" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

&emsp;After discussing mental health and extrovert vs. introvert personalities, I couldn't think of a better podcast/comedian than Theo Von. He's from Louisiana and has a great way with words, and basically has his own language. What I mean by this, is that he asks questions in a unique way that only his super fans understand, which makes him more interesting and funny. Theo’s podcasts consist of solo and guest episodes, and while he has great guests, the solo episodes are where he connects with his audience on a whole different level. Theo Von is a big advocate for mental health and he deals with similar mental health problems as I do, which makes him more relatable and a source I truly can trust. His solo episodes consist of many topics, stories about what he’s been doing since his last solo episode, incorporates a cool feature where he answers calls from his fans and listeners, but doesnt always do the calls live. Instead, he’ll pause at certain points of each phone call, comment in a funny, unique way, and will answer any questions his fans may have, no matter how dark or troubling they are. Throughout his solo episodes, he talks about having anxiety over certain things, and gives his fans a very detailed description of what he’s truly dealing with, and how he’s going about dealing with whatever issue he’s dealing with in any solo episode. His main sponsor is Better Help, which is dedicated to mental health awareness, and helps to provide online therapy to people struggling with anxiety, depression or any other mental health issue. Theo Von constantly discusses mental health during his podcasts, especially his solo episodes, and he truly cares about his audience and their mental health. I absolutely trust Theo Von to discuss not only mental health issues, but also social anxiety issues, communicating with people who have different traits than you. This ties into my extrovert vs. introvert idea, because Theo Von’s guests are all different and all are either very shy or very open. However, once Theo begins working his comedic magic, all of his guests begin to feel more comfortable as the episode goes further.

&emsp;Theo Von connects with many different personalities, and with his fans on his solo episodes, and does this in a way that makes him a very reliable source for information related to mental health, extrovert vs. introvert, and even visually impaired ‘individuals’ as he refers to some. His podcast is very geared towards being yourself, being aware of the mental health issues you’re dealing with, brainstorming ideas on how to help those struggling with such issues, goes into great detail about his current mood, state of mind, what’s bothering him inside that he’s afraid to admit, funny stories about a what he’s been up to recently, and does this all in a very cool and outside the box type of thinking that makes his podcast top 6 on Apple Podcasts lists. The way he can connect with anyone is also exemplified in his guest episodes, because he's not afraid to have any type of person on, no matter what job they may have, or if some find them controversial. As a fan, I really admire that he’s not afraid to give the average man or woman a a seat at his table, giving them confidence that they are better than they might think, while also making his fans and guests laugh, due to his very unique, outside of the box type of comedy and podcast style which gives his audience a legit chance to connect with him, and feel like they are being heard and paid attention to. Many podcast hosts are arrogant, self-centered, and are mainly out for fame, money and popularity. This is another way Theo Von’s This Past Weekend Episode is a great source for my topic. 

&emsp;Due to the way Theo Von can relate to people, and how he constantly puts his issues on his listeners’ table so to speak, never being afraid to be different, and always advocating for mental health awareness; this podcast can help so many people who are struggling with anxiety, depression, other mental health issues, as well as people who struggle with self-confidence. Listeners are truly part of Theo’s journey through his Podcast success, as he always makes them feel as welcome as possible, and his energy is on a different level during his solo episodes, because he can go into great detail about struggles that average people are dealing with, rather than rambling on about boring facts, or having guests on his show just to feed his ego. The episode I’m sharing via podcast audio and YouTube clip is a solo episode that Theo Von dedicates the entire episode to mental health and mental health awareness. This media can truly help those struggling in a way that’s different from many podcasts I’ve listened to, and I’d strongly suggest listening and paying attention to how his unique style of connecting with those who think they may not be good enough is sincere and unique, which really shines during the solo episodes. 

&emsp;After discussing Theo Von and what his podcast truly means to his fans, I’ll rehash a few points. First, his podcast can absolutely relate to my topic of being visually impaired and assistive technology, mental health issues, introvert vs. extrovert personalities, and ways to deal with issues and how to talk to people who may think differently than you, or is the complete opposite of what you are. This Past Weekend is absolutely a credible source of information related to many things, but most importantly mental health and self-confidence related issues. This relates to extrovert vs. introvert, because these two personality traits don’t often get along and are often afraid of approaching someone who’s completely different than they are, as far as social habits and personality types. Theo Von can help many people struggling, but his fans are his utmost importance, as in, he cares about their well-being and makes them feel like he’s their best friend, and helps them navigate through all sorts of issues, even if the issues contain dark or uncomfortable moments for him at times, and his audience.
