---
title: "Teens struggling post pandemic"
date: 2023-11-09T13:54:34-05:00
tags: ["Teens","Issue Introduction","post pandemic","struggling"]
author: "Cleophas Johnson"
draft: false
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

Cleophas Johnson  

University of Kentucky  

ICT 315 

Dr. Vallade  

November 21, 2023 
# Introduction
Taking, a look at the article CDC study shows teens struggling post pandemic, parents call for cyberbullying law the first observation is that the title is too long and can be simplified to better understand the contents of the blog post. The title of the article should be simplified to CDC demonstrates teens struggling after the pandemic. Meanwhile, parents raise awareness for cyberbullying law. This article is presented by abc news at 7, in New York (Richardson, 2023). Furthermore, the author is a reporter for the abc news at 7 she is known as Kimberly Richardson. This article was updated on Tuesday, February 14, 2023. The information shows that the goal of the article is to inform parents and teenagers in New York and the surrounding areas that lawmakers must do something about cyberbullying in teens and parents need to know the signs and struggles of their teen. The type of language choices being made can be better, they exclude way more things than they include. What they need to add is graphs and charts that correlates with percent’s given in the article. Furthermore, these sources need to give more accurate information that gives actual credibility to the specific topic and not just broken up example sentences that are not explained well and are not purposeful these are the things I mean by bad language.  Both of these articles are for the parents, school board, community, everyone who wants to help stop or prevent cyberbullying. These two articles you will find even though they gave a lot of good points and examples the articles left me wanting more or expecting more because cyberbullying is such an open topic that everyone’s perspective is different on this subject matter. Thus, concluding that there is no one direct solution but many different solutions that are proposed and being proposed because cyberbullying is always actively going on 24/7 when no one is suspecting it. 

The topic was framed due to the situations that are mentioned in the articles about cyberbullying and what it should make the reader do is to come up and think about how we can stop cyberbullying the best we can so we don’t have extreme situations on the bad side of the scale but more on the good side meaning no suicides or less and less of them and the bullies doing the cyberbullying being dealt with in the appropriate manner this is how the framework of the topic came together. In our next example coming up we discuss how we hope that the lawmakers have solutions set up to deal with these cyberbullying situations but as the reader will find out they do not.  The example states: “They hope to urge lawmakers to pass a new law that would require school districts to notify parents or guardians of incidents of cyberbullying” (Richardson, 2023). This is good because parents need to be involved in every aspect of their child’s lives especially if their child is being bullied in any kind of way. In addition, this next situation deals with a child committing suicide but not just any child Kristen Bride’s child she is a survivor parent and advocate of social media reform and a member of (BCRSM)-bipartisan council for responsible social media.  In addition, the example states: Bride's 16-year-old son Carson died by suicide in 2020 after being harassed on social media (Richardson, 2023). In addition, "I woke up to the horror that he had hung himself in our garage while we slept," she said (Richardson, 2023). "And there are no words to describe the tragedy of that morning and every day afterwards (Richardson, 2023)."This situation that took place frames the topic because parents need to be more aware of their children and what’s going on in their lives. Furthermore, lawmakers need to enforce the law, so cyberbullying happens less and less until it’s no more in the age group of teens. The information that is included in this article is case studies and videos. The type of information that is excluded is it needs more information as to why lawmakers haven’t done anything in the cyberbullying cases the makes the parents of the victims receive justice. It also, doesn’t include graphs, charts, diagrams of ages to suicide of cyberbullying. In contrast, the article also states this interesting information, “The CDC is taking a close look at data collected from teens in the fall of 2021, critical given the fact that the responses offer the first look at trends since the start of the pandemic”. Furthermore, this article suggests that the agency found nearly three in five girls felt persistently sad, 41% say their mental health was poor in the last 30 days, and more than 50% of LGBTQ+ teens report high levels of violence (Richardson, 2023). This quote adds to my point in the sense of cyberbullying typically happens in situations with people who are normally weak minded and easily persuaded to do things. We see that no matter sexuality, gender, age cyberbullying never takes a break and doesn’t care whose life it ruins.  In addition, "Almost a third of LGBTQ+ students were bullied online” (Richardson, 2023). Almost a quarter were bullied at school, and more than one in 10 did not go to school because of safety," said Kathleen Ethier, Director, Adolescent and School Health, CDC (Richardson, 2023). It’s shocking that the article believes that [experts say this new data indicates that teen boys are also struggling, but find girls are more engulfed in what they call a growing wave of violence] (Richardson, 2023). Normally boys are the ones more involved with violence not girls but now things are changing where both males and females are involved in violence from social media to physical, to verbal and every type of other violence that involves human interaction. Therefore, in Bayville, New Jersey a school superintendent has resigned, and four high school students are facing charges in a vicious attack (Worth, 2023). This information leads to another article that’s been discussed above. This article tells us that a father is demanding accountability from a school in Ocean County, New Jersey, after his 14-year-old daughter took her own life a day after girls in her class beat her up (Worth, 2023). In this next situation we see the assault that happened in the school hallway was posted online, this was followed…. by online bullying the girl's grieving father said the bullying caused his 14-year-old daughter, named Adriana, to take her own life (Worth, 2023). This should not have happened this is the reason why we see an uptick in suicide because kids are cruel and need to stop making fun of these victims in these situations who are already emotionally unstable from these situations and on top of that see it being posted online which in turn makes them commit suicide. Case in point: (https://abc7ny.com/cyberbullying-social-media-safety-suicide-bullying-senate-judiciary-committee/12814407/) was taken one week ago (Worth, 2023). Adriana died Friday (Worth, 2023). I believe cellphones and technology is important because it catches these cyberbullying situations on video and then it can be used if the victim commits suicide or just to stop further cyberbullying attacks from occurring. Technology is thus important for these reasons to help us where we as humans fall short and where we can’t be when these attacks breakout or for every cyberbullying situation. This concludes to hem thinking its enjoyable to attack anyone and post it for fun. For example, "They think it's fun to attack people and take videos and post them," Adriana's father Michael Kuch-Adrianna’s father   said (Worth, 2023). "Getting hit with a water bottle didn't hurt Adriana, what hurt her was the embarrassment and humiliation, they just kept coming at her (Worth, 2023)." Again, we need people to speak out to teens and create an open space to express their feelings and emotions so an unthinkable situation that can’t be undone can happen but become prevented because of that safe space outlet that was provided. Kuch -Adrianna’s father has not slept while trying to mourn his daughter and get justice for her (Worth, 2023). What we need to better communicate with our teens, so these situations won’t happen. Justice needs to take place so mourning and sorrow won’t creep in because a teenager has decided to take their own life. With the use of technology, lawmakers need to do their jobs to stop these cyberbullying attacks before someone gets murdered or commits suicide.  In the second article, the father ends up stating that Kuch-Adrianna’s father stresses there was no accountability and no consequences for the four girls who went after Adriana. He says that had there been, Adrianna may not have felt so terribly alone (Worth, 2023). Kuch -Adrianna’s father said that if the incident were taken seriously, if police and an ambulance were called and if the girls were punished or immediately expelled, he's convinced this would have been very different (Worth, 2023). In Conclusion, the police, health care systems, parents, school systems need to be involved because these cyberbullying situations are getting out of control, and it is very challenging to pinpoint and stop it from happening, so we need people to do their jobs and to take action to lessen these situations.  

 

 

 

# References 

 

 Richardson, Kemberly. “CDC study shows teens struggling post pandemic, parents call for cyberbullying law”. ABC7 New York. https://abc7ny.com/cyberbullying-social-media-safety-suicide-bullying-senate-judiciary-committee/12814407/  

 

other data or sources: Worth, M. Charles. “Father demands justice for daughter who took her life after video of school bullying surfaced”. ABC7 New York. https://abc7ny.com/bayville-14-year-old-suicide-bullying/12787957/ 

 
