---
draft: false
title: "Cybersecurity and ICT"
date: 2023-11-13T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["content","Issue Introduction","Cybersecurity","ICT"]
author: "Ali Reza Mohsini"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

# A publication of Ali's Cybersecurity issue and introduction blog post

Cybersecurity involves safeguarding networks, devices, and information from unauthorized entry or malicious usage, with a focus on ensuring the privacy, reliability, and accessibility of data. In today's interconnected world, nearly every aspect of daily life, including communication, entertainment, transportation, shopping, and healthcare, heavily depends on digital technology. It raises the question of the extent to which our daily routines are reliant on technology and how much of our sensitive data is housed either on personal devices or external systems (Cybersecurity, 2021). 

There are many individuals and groups that are involved in cybersecurity. The individuals are Cybersecurity specialists, cybersecurity analysts, Network administrators, cryptographers, penetration testers or ethical hackers, and chief information security officers. 

A cybersecurity specialist is a professional who safeguards computer systems, networks, and data from cyber threats. They work to prevent, detect, and respond to security breaches, incidents, and attacks. Their role can vary depending on the size and shape of their company or organization. As the job title implies, cybersecurity specialists are expected to have a certain level of training and expertise that allows them to give advice and training on the latest digital best practices. Sometimes, cybersecurity specialists might have really detailed expertise on a particular vendor’s product, such as CISCO Systems, which makes networking and IT products, or they might have experience in other domains such as computer operating systems or mobile applications. They also identify risks, develop solutions, and deploy countermeasures to safeguard digital data and ensure system functionality (Cybersecurityguide.org). In addition, The Cybersecurity Analyst plays a critical role in safeguarding digital systems by scrutinizing security logs across various platforms, including firewalls, SIEMs, and web filtering tools, to identify and address potential security risks. They also take charge of resolving complex user issues related to technology and applications, while spearheading security-focused projects involving needs assessment, risk analysis, and technology vendor selection. Additionally, they are responsible for monitoring and reporting key security performance metrics, ensuring the timely and accurate collection of both quantitative and qualitative data. The role requires a range of essential skills, including firewall administration, security log analysis, incident response, risk management, and foundational business intelligence. Moreover, meticulous attention to detail, methodical adherence to procedures, strong analytical problem-solving abilities, and effective teamwork skills are vital for this position (Cyberseek.org). Additionally, A network administrator is an information technology expert who manages a company's network. This position often represents an organization's highest layer of technical professionals, needing a thorough grasp of technology. Network administrators ensure that networks run smoothly and monitor numerous network services and activities. Their tasks include installing, maintaining, and improving the software and hardware required for computer networks to function properly. Local area networks, wide area networks, the Internet, and intranets are examples of these networks (Rouse, 2017).

Cryptographers work on developing and decoding codes and encryption methods to ensure the security of data transmission and storage. They create cryptography protocols and systems that are critical for protecting sensitive information's secrecy and integrity.  As a cryptographer, the role involves creating intricate security systems using ciphers and algorithms to encode sensitive data, protecting it from cyber threats and unauthorized access. This can include safeguarding various types of information, such as financial, personal, business, or military data. The tasks will revolve around identifying vulnerabilities in current cryptographic systems, testing theories, enhancing data security, and training personnel in secure encryption practices. It will utilize diverse cryptographic techniques, including public and secret key ciphers like RSA, to fortify data protection. Additionally, it will be responsible for managing encryption technology within your organization and developing innovative security solutions to counter potential threats (Western Governors University). The Penetration & Vulnerability Tester is responsible for conducting comprehensive penetration testing and ethical hacking of networks, systems, devices, and applications. Their duties include drafting detailed testing and auditing reports, identifying vulnerabilities, assessing associated risks, and delivering actionable mitigation recommendations. Remaining up-to-date with evolving attack strategies, security tools, technologies, and countermeasures is crucial. They also play a key role in recommending appropriate security solutions. The role necessitates essential skills such as executing penetration tests, operating vulnerability scanners, understanding various threat types, and possessing operational knowledge of IT infrastructure and common operating systems. Additionally, the position requires the ability to anticipate and communicate potential issues effectively, work both independently and collaboratively, manage multiple tasks simultaneously, and demonstrate strong communication and interpersonal skills when engaging with staff at all levels (Cyberseek.org). Furthermore, The Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), an integral part of top management known as the "C-suite," is a senior executive tasked with establishing and implementing an information security strategy that protects an organization's data and networks. CISOs are responsible for monitoring possible risks and ensuring that the organization's security practices are in line with its business objectives. They work closely with other senior executives, such as the chief information officer (CIO) and chief technology officer (CTO), to ensure that the organization's security procedures are effective and efficient. CISOs often have professional experience in information security, computer science, computer engineering, or a discipline linked to information security (Watts, 2022). The CISO is ultimately responsible for the complete security of an organization's information systems. Their responsibilities include developing and implementing security protocols, maybe with the use of a security framework. In bigger organizations, they manage various security teams, understand network operations, and predict possible attacks. Furthermore, they oversee incident response and disaster recovery strategies, coordinate data breach response, and submit frequent reports to the authorized hierarchy, which may include the CIO, CEO, and board of directors (Watts, 2022). 

From my perspective, Cybersecurity can affect anyone who is involved in it in the following ways. Cybersecurity significantly impacts cybersecurity specialists and analysts in various ways: Firstly, the increasing demand for their expertise highlights the necessity of protecting digital assets. Secondly, they must continuously update their skills to keep pace with evolving threats and technologies. Thirdly, the emergence of sophisticated cyber threats necessitates advanced skills and innovative strategies for effective risk mitigation. Fourthly, the need to grasp cutting-edge tools and techniques to counter new threats is vital due to constant technological advancements. Lastly, their involvement in strategic planning ensures the implementation of robust security measures and comprehensive incident response protocols, guaranteeing operational continuity in the event of cyberattacks. Moreover, Cybersecurity may have an influence on network administrators by focusing their efforts on securing the organization's computer networks against intruders. They must learn more about how to keep networks safe from malicious hackers and malicious malware. This means they must constantly monitor the network for unusual activity and respond swiftly to avoid sensitive information from being stolen. They must also follow cybersecurity guidelines to ensure that the network is secure and satisfies the relevant requirements. If there is an issue, they must examine it and find a quick solution to prevent the network from shutting down and losing critical data. They must also train others in the organization on how to keep the network safe and make sure they know how to be careful online.

Cybersecurity can also affect cryptographers by emphasizing the critical role they play in developing strong encryption methods to protect sensitive information from cyber threats. Cryptographers must stay updated on the latest cybersecurity trends and technologies to create robust cryptographic protocols that can withstand sophisticated hacking techniques. They need to continually enhance their encryption techniques to counter emerging cyber threats effectively and ensure the security of data transmissions and storage. Additionally, they may be responsible for identifying potential weaknesses in existing cryptographic systems and implementing enhanced security measures to prevent unauthorized access and data breaches. By emphasizing the essential role penetration testers play in analyzing and bolstering an organization's defenses against cyber-attacks, cybersecurity has a big impact on them. Penetration testers are in charge of simulating real-world cyber assaults in order to detect vulnerabilities in systems and networks, allowing organizations to resolve possible flaws ahead of time. They must be up to date on the newest cyber dangers, attack methodologies, and defense measures in order to be effective in their roles. To effectively assess an organization's security posture, they must constantly upgrade their knowledge and abilities in various hacking tools and tactics. Penetration testers help to improve an organization's overall cybersecurity resilience and preparation for possible cyber-attacks and breaches by conducting rigorous security evaluations. Finally, Cybersecurity has a tremendous influence on Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) by emphasizing their critical role in establishing and executing comprehensive information security plans to protect organizations from cyber-attacks. CISOs are responsible for an organization's entire security posture, which necessitates a thorough awareness of changing cyber hazards and cutting-edge security solutions. To ensure that their organization's security measures correspond with industry standards, they must always remain up to speed on industry best practices and compliance legislation. Furthermore, CISOs are crucial in directing incident response and recovery operations, as well as promoting a culture of security knowledge and compliance among workers in order to successfully minimize possible security threats.

The purpose of the blog is to provide an overview of the field of cybersecurity, highlighting its significance in today's interconnected world and discussing the roles of various professionals in the cybersecurity domain, such as cybersecurity specialists, analysts, network administrators, cryptographers, penetration testers, and Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs). The blog aims to inform readers about the importance of cybersecurity in protecting digital assets and sensitive information from cyber threats. It also emphasizes the essential responsibilities and expertise required for professionals in the cybersecurity sector. The comprehensive discussion aims to raise awareness about the critical role played by cybersecurity professionals in safeguarding organizations against cyber threats and ensuring the security of data and networks.

#### References
[Cybersecurity career pathway. Cyberseek. (n.d.).](https://www.cyberseek.org/pathway.html)
[How to become a cryptographer. Western Governors University. (2021, November 17).](https://www.wgu.edu/career-guide/information-technology/cryptographer-career.html#close) 
[The Ciso Role: What does a chief information security officer do?. Splunk.(2022, November 22).](https://www.splunk.com/en_us/blog/learn/chief-information-security-officer-ciso-role.html) 
Written by  Cybersecurity Guide Contributors – Last updated: October 23. (2023, October 23). [Cybersecurity Specialist Careers: Your essential roadmap. Cybersecurity Guide.](https://cybersecurityguide.org/careers/security-specialist/) 
[What is a network administrator? - definition from Techopedia. (n.d.).](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/8548/network-administrator) 
[What is cybersecurity?: CISA. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency CISA. (2023, October 27).](https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/news/what-cybersecurity)


