---
title: "Digital Bill of Rights "
date: 2023-11-14T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["Issue Introduction","Digital Bill of Rights"]
author: "Douglas Loia"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---
# Introduction
 
With the rise of social media and internet use, the digital landscape has seen a surge of new policies and legislation especially regarding users' data. Governments and policymakers are now realizing how important it is to safeguard the personal information stored by large tech companies. Data from big companies like Facebook and Google are super valuable for marketing, research, efficiency, and optimization they can also be used for malicious purposes like identity theft, scams, and financial loss. It is imperative that there are regulations in place for the collection, storage, and utilization of the data to protect users of the platforms.

# How does the FDBR Protect consumer privacy rights 

On June 6th, 2023 the governor of Florida, Ron Desantis signed Senate Bill 262 better known as Florida Digital Bill of Rights (FDBR) into legislation with the purpose of protecting consumer privacy rights. The FDBR only applies to companies that generate more than one billion dollars in gross revenue and derive at least 50% of their revenue from the sale of digital advertisements, operate an app store or digital distribution platform that offers at least 250,000 different software applications, or operate a smart-speaker and voice-command service with an integrated virtual assistant connected to a cloud computing service with verbal activation. While the bill doesn’t go into effect until July 1st, 2024 I believe it will have long lasting effects with states like Virginia, Colorado, and Utah already having similar legislation.
# Goals For Users/Consumers 

The FDBR goal is to give users/consumers better control of their data and how companies control/use their data. An article called “Florida’s Digital Bill of Rights Becomes Law” by Sunaina Ramesh and Paul F. Schmeltzer goes into detail about the exact rules which are “(1) the right to confirm whether a data controller is processing their personal data and the right to access their personal data; (2) the right to correct inaccuracies in their personal data; (3) the right to delete any or all personal data provided by or obtained; (4) the right to obtain a copy of their personal data in a portable, readily usable format; (5) the right to opt out of the processing of personal data for targeted advertising, sale of personal data, or profiling in furtherance of a decision that produces a legal or similarly significant effect; (6) and the right to opt out of the collection of personal data collected through the operation of a voice recognition or facial recognition feature”(Ramesh & Schmeltzer, 2023). A company has 45 days to respond to a consumer's request to delete or view what data they have collected on them. If they don’t respond the companies can be fined up to $50,000 for violations of the law.

# The GDPR  rules about the regulation of children's data 

The GDPR  rules about the regulation of children's data. Platforms collecting data in Florida can now not knowingly process children’s data which will result in substantial harm or a privacy risk for children. Online platforms are also forbidden from using children’s data for other reasons, retaining unnecessary information, collecting, selling, or sharing children’s geolocation data, or using dark patterns to lead or encourage children to take certain actions. This law seems to have good intentions to protect children and I think platforms should have policies in place that already do this.

# Who Will This Affect 

To understand who this affects I decide to critically think about who the stakeholders are when this law goes into effect. The primary stakeholders are the consumers and users because they have enhanced control over their personal data and privacy rights, which directly impacts their online experience. Also, the companies and platforms are also primary stakeholders because they are obligated to comply with the new legislation which could significantly affect their data collection processes. It can also affect their revenue because they will have less targetable data for advertising purposes. Secondary stakeholders are the Tech Industry as a whole because every company that wants to market their products or collect data in Florida will now have to comply with FDBR.

One question is how will this affect me as a person not living in Florida, companies might just change platform-wide policies instead of just state-wide policies to comply with these laws to make it easier in case other states follow. This means I can have better control of what data I provide to collectors making it easier for me to control my online environment. This could lead to no collection of certain websites I visit, deletion of content I have posted to platforms in the past, and other data that could be valuable to someone else. Another factor would be the stop of targeted advertisements, while some people enjoy the targeted advertisements based on their search history and data it is a little intrusive with the potential for that to be exploited.

# Bill of rights shares a common goal.

While both the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA) and the Florida Digital Bill of Rights (FDBR) share the common goal of enhancing consumer privacy rights, they exhibit some notable differences. One prominent distinction lies in the response time afforded to companies when consumers request to view or delete their data. Under the VCDPA in Virginia, companies have up to 60 days to respond, whereas in Florida under the FDBR, the stipulated response time is 45 days. Additionally, the potential fines levied for non-compliance with these laws vary significantly. In Florida, companies could face fines of up to $50,000 per violation, while in Virginia, the maximum fine per violation is set at $7,500. These distinctions highlight the nuanced approaches taken by each state in safeguarding consumer data and enforcing privacy regulations.

The Florida Digital Bill of Rights (FDBR) and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) share the common goal of protecting individuals' digital privacy rights, but they exhibit distinct approaches and scopes. The FDBR is specific to the state of Florida and applies to companies with a certain threshold of digital operations and revenue thresholds, targeting entities that generate over one billion dollars in gross revenue. In contrast, the GDPR is a  regulation with applicability for all of the EU, governing the data practices of any organization that processes the personal data of European Union residents. While both legislations grant individuals rights to access, correct, and delete their personal data, as well as opt out of certain data processing activities, there are notable differences. For instance, the FDBR places a 45-day timeframe for companies to respond to consumer requests, whereas the GDPR generally allows one month for such responses. Moreover, the GDPR carries stricter penalties, potentially imposing fines of up to 4% of a company's global annual turnover for non-compliance, a huge contrast to the FDBR's maximum fine of $50,000 per violation. These distinctions highlight the nuanced regulatory landscape surrounding digital privacy, reflecting the varying legal priorities and approaches of different jurisdictions.
# Exceptions to the bill
Another important thing to understand about FDBR is the exceptions to the bill. One exception is State agencies which is weird because it seems this law is all about transparency. I think that state agencies should be held to the same standards as major tech companies because the data is just as valuable to them as anyone else. Financial institutions are also exempted under the Gramm-Leach-Biley Act(GLBA). The GLBA protects every U.S. citizen who uses financial services like banks, credit unions, and insurance companies. It enforces each institution to have risk analysis departments as long as certain security measures to ensure that data is stored safely and correctly. Another group exempted from the FDBR is post-secondary education institutions likes colleges and trade schools. In Florida, colleges don’t have to let you know what data they are keeping on you and don’t have to be transparent about it which could lead to some people angry. 

In the era of rapid digital advancements and widespread internet usage, safeguarding user data has become a major concern. Tech giants like Facebook and Google hold a wealth of data, offering immense value for marketing and research, but also carrying the potential for misuse, from identity theft to scams. Establishing comprehensive regulations governing data collection, storage, and utilization is crucial to ensure user protection. The Florida Digital Bill of Rights (FDBR), enacted on June 6, 2023, by Governor Ron DeSantis, marks a significant stride in data privacy. Effective from July 1, 2024, it pertains to companies with revenues exceeding one billion dollars, primarily sourced from digital advertising. FDBR's key objective is to empower users with greater control over their personal data, delineating six fundamental rights. Notably, companies must reply within 45 days to consumer requests for data access or deletion, facing potential fines of up to $50,000 for non-compliance. In comparison, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) of the European Union shares the goal of safeguarding digital privacy but operates on a broader, international scale. It applies uniformly across EU member states and enforces stricter penalties, potentially reaching up to 4% of a company's global annual turnover for non-compliance. These legislations collectively underscore the evolving landscape of data protection in an increasingly digital world, emphasizing the importance of informed engagement with these developments.
# Bibliography:

Florida’s digital Bill of Rights becomes law | News & Events | Clark Hill PLC. (n.d.). https://www.clarkhill.com/news-events/news/floridas-digital-bill-of-rights-becomes-law/

Kilby, D. (2023, May 30). The ranging impacts of Florida's Digital Bill of Rights. International Association of Privacy Professionals. https://iapp.org/news/a/the-ranging-impacts-of-floridas-digital-bill-of-rights/

Usercentrics. (2023, April 26). An Overview of The Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA). Consent Management Platform (CMP) Usercentrics. https://usercentrics.com/knowledge-hub/virginia-consumer-data-protection-act-vcdpa/

What the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act means for your privacy program | DLA Piper. (n.d.). https://www.dlapiper.com/en-us/insights/publications/2021/03/what-the-virginia-consumer-data-protection-act-means-for-your-privacy-program



