---
title: "ICTs in the News: Privacy and Facial Recognition Technology"
date: 2023-11-27T09:00:00-04:00
tags: ["ICT in the news","facial recognition technology","facial recognition","privacy"]
author: "Emma Sandman"
draft: false
---

Link to article: [https://www.foxnews.com/tech/stores-spying-using-creepy-facial-recognition-technology-without-consent](https://www.foxnews.com/tech/stores-spying-using-creepy-facial-recognition-technology-without-consent)

#### Introduction and Goal of Article
Facial recognition technology is a complex subject that deals with new expectations and interpretations of people’s privacy and consent in the current digital age. Kurt Knutsson, also known as the CyberGuy for Fox News, wrote his article “How Stores Are Spying on You Using Creepy Facial Recognition Technology Without Your Consent” in October 2023. The goal of the article is to introduce readers to the facial recognition technology present in many stores, while also explaining why it is a necessary precaution. Because Knutsson is known for his writings on technology and giving his opinion, the article also serves as a way to share his opinion on facial recognition and how it relates to privacy.

#### How Topic is Framed
Before Knutsson starts presenting his case, the title, “How Stores are Spying on you Using Creepy Facial Recognition Technology Without your Consent”, is framed towards a specific viewpoint. It describes facial recognition technology as “creepy” before the audience can even start reading. It automatically assumes a position that readers will already have doubt about facial-recognition technology before even learning about it. This is a very effective tactic when trying to get readers to feel a certain way about topics they either have never heard of or have a neutral opinion on.

#### Language Choices
This emotive language continues throughout the first paragraph, further describing facial recognition technology as “sneaky” and a “huge invasion of privacy.” Using emotive language creates fear for the readers. The article also repeats the phrases “without permission/consent” which adds to this fear of losing something readers assumed they once had. It uses loss framing, meaning it emphasizes the losses, or negative consequences, that the audience will receive. The language and information used highlight the downsides to this technology, such as privacy threats, loss of personal data, and use without consent. This creates this sense of concern and loss for the readers, which perpetuates Knutsson’s goal of the article.

#### Included and Excluded Information
The information that Knutsson decided to include and exclude from his article made it lack a balanced perspective on the ideas of facial recognition technology. To support his claims for his stance, he included information on bans for this technology, which supports his reasoning that it can be an invasion of privacy. However, the article lacks detailed information on the other side of the issue, which would educate readers on why facial recognition technology is being used in the first place despite these privacy concerns. He does include a paragraph stating that stores use it for catching shoplifters and personalizing customers’ experiences, but this could be expanded. Excluding this information is another example of how the article is framed towards the negative sides of this technology, showing more examples of how it is bad compared to how it can be useful.

Additionally, Knutsson fails to provide sufficient information explaining exactly why facial recognition technology is bad. He repeats that facial recognition technology is a privacy invasion because people do not have a choice if their data is used while in public, but he fails to expand or explain his point sufficiently. The article is relatively short, but almost every sentence highlights the same concerns of facial recognition going against privacy and human rights laws. More information and sources should have been included to educate on the other negative consequences of facial recognition technology that Knutsson failed to mention, like tracking customers, misuse by employees, and remaining anonymous. This could have made his one-sided argument more compelling, but Knutsson was only focused on one negative aspect instead of looking at the whole picture, especially since the privacy concerns seem to elicit the most fear from society. The information he chose to research and include in the article push readers against facial recognition technology while excluding information that would help readers see the full picture.

#### Sources in Article
As mentioned earlier, more sources would have helped this article make a better point. The article includes little evidence to back up Knutsson’s claims, featuring limited direct citations and links to relevant news stories on Fox News. In the beginning of the article, Knutsson describes what facial recognition technology is and includes a hyperlink over the words, “facial features”. This hyperlink sends users to another article on Fox News titled, “AI Can Predict a Person’s Politics by Their Looks, Whether They Smile in Pics: Study.” This article also defines facial recognition technology; however, the hyperlink directs users to the main Tech page for Fox News. There is no debate about what facial recognition is, so this would be an easy place to include an unbiased definition that can explain to the audience what it all entails. If readers were to follow this trail to the Fox News Tech page, they may read misinformation and misinterpret facial recognition technology in such a way that would affect their understanding to this issue.

The direct websites that Knutsson does link are accurate. It included the bills and legislation that would ban federal agencies and schools from using facial recognition technology, both of which are updated and published less than two months ago. There were also other news stories online covering these same bills.

One of the links in the article directed users to the Fight for the Future group who states which retailers are using facial recognition technology. Fight for the Future is a nonprofit group that strives to spread awareness of facial recognition technology to the public and get businesses to pledge against using it. They directly ask retailers if they use this technology and are very clear on their scoring for each company. While there is little data regarding what stores do or do not use facial recognition technology, other news sources still cite the work from Fight for the Future. Another direct link supports Knutsson’s article by proving that human rights advocates are trying to prohibit facial recognition technology in public spaces and at national borders. The article links to a different article from Human Rights Watch, and it calls for governments and companies to stop using this technology. Although all the cited data in this article is accurate, it still lacks data and evidence to support the reasonings on the negative effects of the technology and any definitions that could help readers better understand the issues.

#### Conclusion
To conclude, facial recognition technology is a complex issue that has many people concerned with its usage. This article gives Knutsson’s stance on the issue, focusing on the downsides and concerns for this technology. The information and evidence he includes supports his reasoning, but there are gaps regarding both sides of the issue that could have been expanded upon. Whether or not people agree with this opinion, it would be beneficial to use more evidence to explain both sides and create an article that does not frame the issue towards a negative viewpoint. With his popularity on Fox News, many people look towards him for his opinions on technology-related issues. Having the article framed this way can lead people to assume one side of the issue without looking for more information.