---
title: "Consumer Privacy & Data in the News"
date: 2023-11-27T09:11:16-04:00
tags: ["content", "ICT in the News"]
author: Austin Rhea
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

# ICT in the News

[Article link:](https://cyberscoop.com/idaho-national-laboratory-siegedsec/) 

Consumer data privacy is not talked about very often for how prevalent it is. There usually aren’t news articles from the larger media sites about advancements in the technology to protect user data or policy changes made regarding user data privacy. However, data breaches can sometimes catch people’s attention, especially the larger ones that can affect thousands of people. And with how dangerous data breaches can be for consumers, they need all the warning they can get. A data breach is a security incident where user information is stolen. This information can include very personal data such as birth dates, Social Security numbers, and bank account information. If someone has that information, you could be at high risk of identity theft. Someone could use this information to impersonate you and spend money using your name, leading you to suddenly have a mountain of debt on purchases you never made. Some hackers might not even use this data for themselves. They could just release the information to the public, such as the case of a recent data breach at the Idaho National Laboratory. 
This was talked about in an article written by Christian Vazquez at CyberScoop. A cybercrime group named SiegedSec gained access to the personal information of employees at the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), a nuclear research lab located in Idaho Falls, Idaho. The INL is one of 17 US research and development test labs, and they focus on nuclear energy, while also researching energy security and other national security issues. 

The hackers attacked the servers supporting its Oracle Human Capital Management system, which supported the applications used in INL’s Human Resources department. Oracle describes the specific product that was targeted as a “complete cloud solution that connects every human resource process and every person across an enterprise.” The INL says they have been in touch with the FBI and Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency to try to determine the total damage caused by the breach. One file of leaked information had over 6000 lines on active employee’s social security numbers. Another file had over 58,000 lines of detailed employee data on current, retired, and former employees. The last date seen in the sample information leaked was October 31, 2023. However, some leaked screenshots indicate that there may be more data stolen than what can be determined from the sample. There have been similar attacks on national laboratories in the past. Russian hackers reportedly targeted the Brookhaven, Argonne, and Lawrence Livermore National Laboratories. And SeigedSec specifically claimed to have targeted NATO in October, stealing roughly 3,000 documents. 
The quality of evidence is very high. They often quoted officials with information on the attack, such as an INL spokesperson and Oracle, the creators of the applications that the INL human resources department used. They also cited what the hacking group SiegedSec had said about the attack, including what it had access to, and some of the attacks they claimed responsibility for in the past. I thought the decision to cite the hacker group was interesting, and I decided to investigate them further. I found a “threat actor” profile on them at SOCradar.io, which was a website that helped to educate against digital threats and sold products to help protect against attacks. The profile said that SiegedSec was a “gay furry” hacker group known for comical slogans and vulgar language. They attack by defacing and compromising websites, leaking sensitive information, and gaining unauthorized access to databases and emails, which is what they did in the INL attack. While they have targeted a wide variety of industry sectors, they mostly attack Public Administration, or in other words, government organizations.  They have also targeted a diverse range of countries, including USA, South Africa, India, and the Philippines. The author used some interesting language throughout the article, specifically in regard to SiegedSec. One strange choice I noticed was the decision to mention Oracle’s HCM system early in the article, in the third paragraph, but not describe what it was until the 11th paragraph. In between the article mentions what the INL does and samples of the leaked data. I could understand if the author thought it was more important to share that information first, I just think that the context of how the system that was hacked works would be better suited closer to the first mention of the system. Another choice that I questioned was some of the ways the hacker group SiegedSec is talked about. Particularly in the paragraph at the end of the article, where it mentions that they are less interested in “hacktivist” type attacks and consider themselves to be “black hat” hackers, which is a type of hacker who does their work illegally rather than following the law. I don’t think it was necessary to discuss how the hackers want to be called or thought of. However, the article does mention after this some other attacks the SiegedSec have claimed responsibility for, which is a good addition to give the reader more context on this hacker group.

With the rapid growth in technology, it’s become more important than ever to stay on your toes technologically and keep an eye on your data. Hackers have more tools than ever before to attack systems and find data, and they’re using it to attack a wide variety of targets. Ranging from government organizations to large corporations, to even regular people like you and me. But the updated technology also allows for advanced security tools and strategies to protect yourself from outside attacks. As long as you stay conscious of what you do with your data, and stay wary of potential threats, you’ll be able to stay one step ahead. 

## References

Sources Cited:

[Kamel, G. (2023, November 6). What You Need to Know About Data Breaches. Ramsey 
Solutions.](https://www.ramseysolutions.com/insurance/data-breach-impacts#:~:text=Recent%20Data%20Breaches&text=Sure%2C%20gaining%20access%20to%20information,use%20that%20information%20against%20you.) 

[SOCRadar. (2023, October 18). Threat Actor Profile: SiegedSec. SOCRadar.io.](https://socradar.io/threat-actor-profile-siegedsec/) 

[Vazquez, C. (2023, November 20). Detailed data on employees of U.S. national security lab leak 
online. CyberScoop.](https://cyberscoop.com/idaho-national-laboratory-siegedsec/)
