---
title: "An Analysis of the Digital Divide in Brazil and Barriers to Telehealth and Equal Digital Health Care"
date: 2023-11-27T14:03:04-05:00
tags: ["ICT in the News", "Digital Divide", "Brazil", "Telehealth"]
author: "John Hauck"
draft: false
---
# Article Summary
I would say this was a great [article](https://www.jmir.org/2023/1/e42483) to write about because it offered an open and broad view of alternative medicine and telehealth and how the “digital divide” affects it. Additionally, the author provided solutions and alternatives that were supposed to help Brazilians during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the article, they explore and discuss the potential benefits of quick access, cost efficiency, and better health results. At the same time, the article highlights how the digital divide is the number 1 enemy of remote medical services and how challenging it is to overcome it, including lots of data and statistics presented by their research prompt.  

# Information Utilization
## Included Information
As the included information I would like to highlight that even though Digital Divide exists immensely, during the covid 19 pandemic alternative online appointments were quickly introduced and made available in Brazil. They also included information such as focusing on the benefits of solving the digital divide and spreading telehealth, highlighting how quick access is and how big of an improvement it is for the population including the reduced costs. They also include very big news, how telehealth was recently made legal in Brazil, and how relevant that is for the article. They also include recent tools made available that contribute to both the digital divide solving and the implementation of telehealth, such as remote monitoring, artificial intelligence, and remotely controlled hardware (which I believe stands for medical equipment such as a hearty monitor that can be controlled remotely).  

## Excluded Information
As far as excluded information goes, it is important to note how they could have discussed more about how the economic and class gap affects the digital divide and telehealth, it is important to mention that the digital divide in Brazil is a wealth problem. People with lower incomes don’t have access to the internet or devices that would give them the full benefits of remote health appointments. I would have liked to see more about the law that was recently approved by Congress so I would know what the limitations through the eyes of the law are. I would also mention they did not include how that would happen, what would be the challenges after telehealth was implemented, who would teach the public how to use it, how insurance would work with that, how test results would be delivered, etc.  

# Language Usage
So far as the language used, I would say is accessible and easy to understand but technical when necessary. The text shows us a good mix of medical terms and general terms for the public to better comprehend it. So, it basically includes everybody, from medical researchers all the way to the less educated public interested in the topic. Although, in some parts of the article I would say they have a more optimistic view in trying to sell their idea to the readers, highlighting too many of the benefits of remote medical services.  

# Evidence Evaluation
## Qualitative
So far as quality of evidence, I would like to point out they have solid evidence of how quickly telehealth was implemented during the pandemic, and how the recent passing of a law on behalf of telehealth also adds strong points in their favor. The evidence on the digital divide itself has a qualitative side, it is mentioned strongly a couple of times, but they could have dug more into the topic and added how it affects the country geographically from region to region. Also, the discussion about the benefits of remote health services is strongly supported by real-life cases and by studies and research, which really reinforces the quality of the evidence presented.  

## Quantitative
The authors also included a lot of quantitative evidence to support their claim (i.e, numbers). They put their numerical data under the results section, along with using tags, keywords, and adding a conclusions module to translate the numbers into ideas. They perfectly explained their methods, background, and objectives. The authors also explained their data source, which included ethics approval and data collection methods. Those are all ways to support your claim and research. The numbers they present have awesome support for their research. The variables table included is important since it tells how based the research is and they took different variables into consideration. They also used previous census numbers. Their research was well executed, especially because they included missing values and a map with demographics, taking geography into consideration. They used another table for internet users to explain the digital divide by itself with all variables included. That led to health parameters and logistic regression. In their discussion tab, they analyzed all the data previously mentioned and kept going till they reached their conclusions and principal findings, where they also included strengths and limitations as well as future directions. They also included a whole references page, abbreviations, and copyright.  

# Conclusion
I wrote this while I read the article so this critical analysis kind of reflects my own reaction to the article as well. I realized as I read this research, article, or news (since they are all in one) is really funded, and basically includes everything with a good language mix between medical terms and general terms. I found no flaws in this news, they are informative and highlight something important to society in general, in how to advance with technology and provide better health care to Brazil. As the researcher himself mentioned, “This study aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the first-level digital divide in Brazil, estimate the relationship between variables, and identify the challenges and opportunities for digital health care implementation.” I hope Brazil and the whole continent of Latin America can finally overcome the digital divide as I see how beneficial for the nation it would be. I would say the article describes the goods of telehealth during the pandemic effectively while recognizing the challenges represented by the digital divide in Brazil. It also perfectly described how they did research on it (i.e., presenting data, numbers, interviews, and much more on both telehealth and the digital divide).
