---
title: "Emotional Intelligence: A Life Skill"
date: 2023-11-30T09:11:16-04:00
tags: ["content", Media Recomendation]
author: Keenan Rhodes
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

# A Media Recomendation Within ICT

The topic of this media recommendation is how emotional intelligence has become an important skill to develop for people in all walks of life, specifically in this case, how having greater emotional intelligence can improve leadership and management skills. The format of the media source is a TED Talk, this media source is a highly reliable source of information, and is used by many professionals to speak about major issues in their areas of expertise. The speaker in this Talk is Gemma Godall, a leadership and business mentor, as well as the founder of the “Instituto de Inteligencia Emocional'' or the Institute for Emotional Intelligence, a training platform that provides organizations with the resources and objectives to help develop the potential and talent of their employees while maintaining a healthy workplace atmosphere for the entire organization. Gemma is a very credible source on the topic due to her many years of experience mentoring other professionals on the benefits of improving emotional intelligence. Gemma uses personal stories and experiences to add context to many of the problematic situations she speaks about, for example, she revealed how her own emotions and the emotions of her coworkers influenced her behaviors and actions at her former job, as well as the greater effects that the workplace atmosphere had on Gemma and her peers. She discusses the practical application of many different techniques to improve listening skills and properly communicating emotion in a professional manner. Gemma also speaks of the positive effects that improving emotional intelligence has, such as developing a stronger connection with her children and personal friends.  

Gemma emphasizes the importance of allowing oneself to communicate and share emotion with close friends and family, because without understanding and confronting individual emotions it can cause lasting negative effects on both mental and physical health. She concludes her speech by having the audience visualize a word in which everyone uses healthy communication habits, in which everyone can feel comfortable sharing their emotions with those they are close to, and instead of feeling the usual day-to-day anxiety, perhaps replace that with a feeling of happiness and understanding.  

<div style="max-width:854px"><div style="position:relative;height:0;padding-bottom:56.25%"><iframe src="https://embed.ted.com/talks/lang/en/gemma_garcia_godall_how_emotional_intelligence_makes_leaders_more_impactful" width="854" height="480" style="position:absolute;left:0;top:0;width:100%;height:100%" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe></div></div>