---
title: "Remote Work: Navigating ICT, Infastructure, and Burnout in the Modern Workplace"
date: 2023-09-19T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["content","presentation"," Issue Introduction and Background ","Remote Work",""
author: "Levi McCauley"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---
# Issue Introduction and Background

**Levi McCauley**  
*College of Communication and Information, University of Kentucky*  
*ICT 315: Human Relations and Technology*  
*Dr. V*  
*November 7, 2023*

This is an introduction to the selected issues within ICT, Remote work, Infrastructure, and Burnout. The information presented will cover a brief introduction to the remote work scene and go over how this has changed in recent years. The discussion of how the practice has seen a significant increase from the global COVID-19 pandemic takes place. I include the topic of how the work setting, being from home, influences an individual's ability to communicate or adjust social norms will be covered as well. The upsides and downsides of remote work tie into the reason individuals are affected by these various personal conditions. I also cover an interview held with someone I look up to in the remote field and discuss the positives and negatives of the topic.

## Weekend-Like Workdays

It is a broadly accepted statement that weekends are some of the most desired time slots within a normal week. The ability to ask yourself “Is it in my interest to go anywhere this weekend?” is very liberating considering that they have the freedom to remain in their household with some pajamas and a cup of coffee for the remainder of the week. For some individuals, however, this is just the lifestyle that they have found themselves in as working remotely from home almost (and I say almost loosely) turns every day into a weekend. This is a trend that has been erupting in the past few years, as the need for employees to be present in the workplace is becoming more of an option. According to Maryam Mohsin, a journalist for the entrepreneurship blog Oberlo, the amount of work seen remotely has increased by a shocking 44% in just the last 5 years (Mohsin, 2023). This is primarily due to the fact that within today's technological advancements, having more remote positions is becoming more trivial to incorporate within businesses. The freedom of these positions offers much more flexibility within employee schedules, decreased infrastructure finances, and overall, just more employee freedom within the workplace (Kissflow, 2023).

## The Pandemic's Influence

The topic of working from home, its infrastructure, and the potential effect of burnout is one that cannot be discussed without first getting some context on how the pandemic initiated the boom of the practice. Kim Parker et al., an author from the Pew Research Center says that for the jobs eligible to take part in the phenomenon, 61 percent of people say that they are indulging in it by choice (Parker, 2022). I feel as though this makes sense. Who would want to be somewhere other than the home during a global pandemic? Who would want to cut the practice if the workplace allowed it in the first place? It would take a good amount of resolve for me to return to my company's building when, for the last two years, I have been able to stay on top of work-related responsibilities from the comfort of my own office at home. Parker rebuts the idea by saying that those who specifically choose to go into the workplace do so because they are prioritizing performance and preference (Parker, 2022). This leads to the Idea of the freedom of working in the home and the potential threat of burnout. Anyone who is capable of working remotely has to consider the upsides and downsides of the practice. The threat of burnout in the workplace due to remote work can seriously be a threat to a company's productivity if the majority of employees are experiencing it at home.

## Downsides of Remote Work

The freedoms of remote work cannot afford to be completely positive for employees however, the amount of freedom within these remote-based could be considered too much for a business and can enforce a lot of drawbacks for an individual. Loneliness and isolation, lack of communication with the entire theoretical team, decreased amounts of company-secured information, and the loss of peer-to-peer communication are all harsh negatives that can affect a person's mental state and well-being (Kissflow, 2023). The assumption that these harsh realities happen in case-to-case instances may be true to a certain extent, as well as the idea that these things can only happen if a certain, elongated amount of time passes. The truth is, that remote work isn’t something that is new to the planet and that people even slightly older than me (21) are experiencing (and have been experiencing) the benefits and drawbacks of the phenomenon for years.

## Interview Insights

I had an interview with my older brother Noah McCauley, a 27-year-old who works for the internet service provider Windstream. McCauley works completely remotely from the comfort of his home and has been doing so for the past 4 or 5 years. When asked his thoughts on working from home he responded, “It feels like when I close my projects, I don’t feel any sort of accomplishment like I have done anything beneficial”. He added to this by saying that his job at times can really feel “very monotonous from day to day”. The idea that working from home creates a sort of disconnect between the employee and the parent company was reasonably prevalent in his thought process. I talked with him about the upsides of working remotely and he agreed with me that the most direct positive is the fact that you do not even have to leave your home, much less go to an office cubicle. This brought up the interesting idea considering the small number of people at Windstream that do actually go into the office. McCauley replied with the statement “Going to work in a physical location in a separate place generates a sense of relief when you go home. Working remotely joins both the workplace and your personal space. It can create an issue where the stresses of the job are just a few steps away and creates the idea that weekends feel nonexistent. A Saturday could very well be a Wednesday for me”. Overall, the interview left me with the overarching opinion that working remotely almost entirely depends on the person willing to do it. McCauley said that he “knew people who go insane working from home”.

I would say that the disconnect between home and the workplace should definitely be valued if you are the type of person to want that disassociation. I agree with the research that Parker has conducted with non-remote working individuals prioritizing productivity. For me, working in the home is something that seems like a dream too good to be true. After all, I am only used to physically going to a different location for my current and previous professions. The idea of having the responsibility to make a living from my own home takes me back to whenever I was going through community college online and was solely responsible for my academic performance. I was able to handle my assignments sure, but working full time seems to be a steeper hill to climb. I would be afraid of being overwhelmed by the stresses of my workplace and only having Microsoft Teams calls or any other web-based method as my only escape for help. Because it is mostly unclaimed territory for me, I would be willing to give it a chance when or if it comes to me, but I would need to be sure to be more alert and on my toes for the position I am in. It would feel great to work in my pajamas, not get fired in them.

## Conclusion

The uprising of working from home has seen an insane amount of activity in recent years due to the pandemic. The global event had put a lot of individuals in the position of finding and forming habits of making a living in a setting that was once unfamiliar but is now preferred. The pros and cons of the situation have left a larger divide among those willing to stay home in an eligible position than you might think. Burnout, isolation, and the loss of social norms within the workplace have been traded in for the freedom of staying home, and the reliability of just an internet connection to form a stable work life. All in all, I think that the concern of the foundation of remote working is one that is held in the eyes of the executives of these large companies. Enough time has passed since the boom of practice to the point where companies have left the situation as something as close to a standard as it will get. In the case of those I know personally, everything works out just fine with no major upsets. To say that this is the case for every individual working from home is an exaggeration. Nonetheless, it is an incredible thing to witness in this day and age as just a few years back, you would have told me I was crazy if I tried to explain the magnitude of this phenomenon. It goes to show how important ICT is and how it is growing as a large-scale topic that relates to more and more issues as technology continues to grow.

## References

- Kissflow. (2023, October 12). [Working Remotely Pros & cons you must know before going remote](https://kissflow.com/digital-workplace/remote-work/pros-and-cons-of-working-remotely/).
- Mohsin, M. (2023, August 21). [10 remote work statistics that you need to know in 2023](https://www.oberlo.com/blog/remote-work-statistics#:~:text=Over%20the%20last%20five%20years,by%20the%20end%20of%202022.).
- Parker, K., et al. (2022, February 16). [Covid-19 pandemic continues to reshape work in America](https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2022/02/16/covid-19-pandemic-continues-to-reshape-work-in-america/).
- Self-conducted interview with Noah McCauley on 11/6/23.

