---
title: "ICT in the news"
date: 2023-09-19T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["article","covid","remote","work","ICT in the News"]
author: "Levi McCauley"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---
**The Flexible Workplace In the News**

The article in question for the assignment below is one published by A World Report U.S. News by Gabe Burke, a leader in Accenture’s Real Estate & Workplace Solutions consulting practice. The article can be found here. [Link](https://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2023-10-03/it-is-time-to-end-the-war-on-remote-work).

Whenever I was reviewing this news article, I found almost immediately that the direction was strongly opposing remote work. Burke discusses the new mandates post covid to reissue employees back in the office. I think that this is a matter of opinion of course and should be regarded behind the higher-ups from business to business. There are a lot of rhetorical arguments within this article that give remote work a bad reputation. Word choice, with examples like using flat, return-to-office (RTO), bludgeon, and so on. This decision by Burke gives off the idea that remote work needs to come to an end for the sake of productivity across the nation. As we will see later on, Burke is not entirely arguing for the complete end of remote work, he is simply giving off his thoughts as a matter of opinion and kudos to him for sharing.

To add to the idea that this article is heavily one-sided, Burke fails to go in-depth on the known positives of the practice. He only mentions toward the end that “Flexible work has proven that it works, and employees know it” (Burke, 2023). I think that this news article heavily applies to the ICT concept called “one-sideism” where the author of a news source chooses to input no or only a small amount of information for the opposing side of the proposition. Overall, I would say that this article is primarily formed off of Burke’s opinion, as no real evidence is laid out to support his claims of the downsides of remote work. For example, claiming that RTO initiatives are being mandated more and more and saying that they have little to no effect on the people of our country doesn’t carry the same “oomph” that it would if real statistics were provided of the percentage of individuals who are really deciding to be unaffected. I think that the target audience for this news outlet would be much more sufficiently moved/influenced if these sorts of concepts were introduced given the time framing and topic that is at hand.   

Burke does, however, give his own opinion toward the end of the article that states his own proposition to the heads at these companies issuing the remote work concern. This section of the article is very interesting as it affects the reader in the sense of a cooldown period before the end of the publishing. Think of it like a quick break before a shift at work to let off the steam before moving along with the day. Burke states that its best, in his opinion, to not fight the direction that remote work is taking, but rather co-exist alongside it and implement, and transform it into new business strategies (Burke, 2023). I think that this is a great portion of the article as not only does it give off that feeling of de-escalation, but it also reveals a lot about Burke’s target audience. Through his unique communication nuances here in this part, It could be inferred that Burke himself goes into an office and speaks on behalf of employees who continue to experiment with that strategy. His intentions on his beliefs reveal that he is simply sharing his knowledge with a working class that has been affected by the covid pandemic, and been given the opportunity/decision to work remotely. While Burke is not ever transparent with his target audience, the topic that he is discussing naturally applies to a set of individuals who are affected by remote work or at least know someone who is. Overall, I would say that the news outlet is fairly self-aware of this, as who else would concern themselves with Burke’s writing, the topic, or the news outlet in general.

Throughout the course of our class, ICT 315: we have continued to go over this theme of credibility. When taking a look at this article, I think that Burke could do a better job of applying the 3 Cs to extend himself further to the reader for a deeper connection. By the way that he has written this article, it definitely reads as though this is a topic that he is deeply compassionate about, but comes up shorthanded when trying to express individual character and confidence. I would say that these shortcomings could be due to the lack of personal experience with remote work. Not having a personal tie-in to share with the reader can be detrimental to your character within the environment of this article. To add to these critiques, the missing statistical evidence can show that not only Burke, but the entire news organization is lacking in competence on the issue. If I were to have read a different article with more fact-checking statements, I would think that whatever news source I found was very proficient and distinguished in getting the right information to me. This is not to say that this publication is not proficient, however, But performing an in-depth analysis of this article with the preconceived notion that it needs to apply to a modern ICT setting has led me to form these critiques.

I think that how ICT is distinguished within a news article, or any piece of content is a very interesting thing to talk about. The primary focus of this assignment/post is to help me realize that. This is especially effective when the topic at hand is something very real and experienced every single day. Applying what I have learned from this course and the ones prior to it has naturally changed the way that I think whenever I look at something like Burke’s post. The small decisions in his writing have really shown me how one may take it at face value and how someone within the major would take it much deeper than that. Whether it be remote work, the effects of burnout, or any other topic within ICT, I will be sure to take this mindset with me.

**References**
Burke, G. (2023, October 3). *It is time to end the war on remote work | US news opinion.* Its Time to End the War on Remote Work. [link](https://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2023-10-03/it-is-time-to-end-the-war-on-remote-work) 
