---
title: "ICT in the News"
date: 2023-09-27T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["deep fake","internet","CNN","California","ICT in the News"]
author: "Matthew Hill"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---
**Usage of Deep Fake Technology**

The article in question for the assignment below is one published by A World Report U.S. News by Gabe Burke, a leader in Accenture’s Real Estate & Workplace Solutions consulting practice. The article can be found here. [Link](https://www.usnews.com/opinion/articles/2023-10-03/it-is-time-to-end-the-war-on-remote-work).

This past October one of the worst case scenarios for the use of deep fake technology occurred. A student at a New Jersey highschool found that her classmates were creating and sharing AI generated pornography of the female students at the highschool. CNN reported after speaking on-air with the student and her mother regarding the lack of legal recourse in this case. This report was created to inform CNN readers of this shocking story and to highlight these girls' stories. It begins with the shocking headline of “High schooler calls for AI regulations after manipulated pornographic images of her and others shared online. The authors of this article, Skylar Harris and Artemis Moshtaghian’s article, contains informative tone and minimal context  which creates a shallow look into deep fakes but complete coverage of the case. 
The authors begin with the context of the situation with the information regarding what a deep fake is outsourced in a link. This link will take the reader to another CNN article which details how deep fakes have been used primarily for the creation of pornography. The information in this second article covers victims of deep fakes and their opinions on the matter. The original article then moves into quotes from the school district and the immediate actions taken by law enforcement. The informative tone fits very well in this article as each aspect of the case is important including the school district and superintendent. This portion of the news story is crucial to readers as it provides the understanding that the issue is being properly dealt with on a local level. This gives the readers solace in knowing that the correct measures were taken to correct this problem. It serves as the conclusion to the major story that the article highlights.
 An interview with the student was conducted by CNN and linked previously in the article which highlights her feelings toward that student and about deep fakes overall. The authors should have included more of the students testimony as it showcases how she feels brushed off by the school district and law enforcement. The article reads like the issue has been resolved aside from the mother wanting more accountability. However, the student and her mother speak about herself and the many others that have felt neglected by the school, local, and state officials. This addition to the article would bring much needed context as to why it seems this student is standing up alone to be a voice for other young girls. This omission fundamentally changes how the reader will view the conclusion of this case. Many will read that the proper actions were taken and not inspect further to understand how little to nothing has been done. 
The authors then broaden the scope of the article utilizing a quote from the interview. In this quote, the mother speaks about how this is indicative of a much more complex issue which must be addressed. It does not explain if she means a more complex social issue or rather a complex technological issue. The article touches on the actions taken by the victims in this case to pressure both the local government and the president. The daughter sent a letter to urge for the creation of laws to protect underage boys and girls. However, it could have added more detail to the wishes. The article explicitly highlights the mothers concern with the lack of coverage deep fakes have received legally. It would have made sense for the article to link to or provide information on ways to support the creation of deep fake laws or why deep fake laws are difficult to create. The authors similarly could have touched on the sad reality that this student is having to write letters to officials to ensure that other children will never have to go through what she and the other students have.
The article concludes with a link to information about bills which are being written in California to handle deep fake videos in politics and pornography. These bills were introduced in 2020 to curb the use of deepfakes for these uses. This information is from a legal firm which outlines laws which were made in California. The article does not mention that the provisions regarding deepfakes in political campaigns have already sunsetted in 2023. The provisions regarding pornography are not set to sunset. The remainder of this resource cites California legal code to justify the law's place. It would have also been pertinent to add that other states such as Texas,Virginia, and Hawaii have all created laws surrounding deep fakes in the years since (Bass et al., 2023). This would allow the readers who continued past the conclusion of the case to get a deeper understanding of the legal progress that has been made. Readers would be shown that this issue is actively being worked on. Providing this may have the unintended effect of creating apathy when it comes to pressuring for deep fake laws. It may be assumed that each state will make their own laws regarding deep fakes. This assumption is a difficult one as it could create a scenario such as today where deep fakes are a criminal offense in some states but only a civil offense in others. 
Overall, the article covers the surrounding facts of the case to what can be seen as its conclusion. It does a decent job at adding relevant background information to the story when necessary. This article lacks the true intention of the student and her mothers goal of speaking publicly against this use of deep fakes. This lack of information is however in line with the author's goal. They seek to inform the public of this horrific use of modern technology and the actions taken to stop it, not the effectiveness of those actions. These readers are getting a specific view of this case that gives the impression that this case has been handled. It is because of this lens which creates an incomplete telling of the events as it relates to the victims.

**References**
BBass, D. F., Penning, N., & on, S. A. (2023, July 25). The Legal Issues Surrounding Deepfakes. [link](https://www.honigman.com/the-matrix/the-legal-issues-surrounding-deepfakes)
Moshtaghian, S. H., Artemis. (2023, November 4). High schooler calls for AI regulations after manipulated pornographic images of her and others shared online. CNN. [link](https://www.cnn.com/2023/11/04/us/new-jersey-high-school-deepfake-porn/index.html)
Two New California Laws Tackle Deepfake Videos in Politics and Porn | Davis Wright Tremaine. (n.d.). Retrieved November 21, 2023, from [link](https://www.dwt.com/insights/2019/10/california-deepfakes-law)
