---
title: "Assistive Technology"
date: 2023-09-19T09:04:30-04:00
tags: ["Issue Introduction","Assistive","Technology"]
author: "Alex Head"
show_reading_time: TRUE
---

  I’ve decided to focus my Blog issue and introduction and analysis on a topic I’m very familiar with, Assistive Technology. I found an interesting news article about how Assistive Technology is a “life saver” for those who use it. Students with visual impairments face unique challenges in the educational system. As a visually impaired student, I’ve struggled my entire life with challenges that I must face due to my visual impairments. I’m totally blind in my right eye and legally blind in my left eye. I’ve had much experience using assistive technology and have had the opportunity to see the industry grow and add new technology for students with visual impairments to use.  
  I think my blog can be dedicated to telling stories about visual impairments, issues in school and the workplace, as well as blog posts, consisting of brainstorming solutions to important questions visually impaired people may have. Data collection would include stories from visually impaired people I know that have positive and negative experiences with Assistive Technology. Action Research would be a great proposal for looking further into this topic. A case study could be helpful with who, what, when, where, why. I found these examples of research ideas in the Modules section of class readings. 
  An idea for a blog section for ICT solutions to Assistive Technology could be to ask if Assistive Technology can be improved for those in school and in the workplace. A question could also be asked what types of Assistive Technology is currently available, past technologies for visually impaired people, and personal stories from experience with the technology. 
     In case people are unaware of what having a visual impairment means, I wanted to give a quick definition and examples of assistive technology as well. According to (https://familyconnect.org/assistive-technology/an-overview/) “A visual impairment can be described as a general description of significant vision loss.” Visual impairments include people with low vision, legal blindness, or total blindness. Visual impairment can be best described as a visual acuity of 20/70 vision or worse in the best eye with correction, or total visual field loss of 140 degrees. Now that I’ve described what being visually impaired truly means, in my first segment, I wanted to give an overview of the different types of assistive technology that has been used and is used today.
# Overview of Assistive Technology
    According to the Assistive Technology Industry Association (What is at? Assistive Technology Industry Association. (n.d.). Retrieved March 22, 2023, from https://www.atia.org/home/at-resources/what-is-at/), “assistive technology helps people who have difficulty speaking, typing, writing, remembering, pointing, seeing, hearing, learning, walking, and many other things. Different disabilities require different assistive technologies” Examples of low tech assistive technology tools for students with visual impairments might include enlarged text, magnifying glasses, enlarged projection screens and Smart Boards, while high tech tools may include digital tools that read to the student, reading assistance, speech-to-text software, smart glasses and even virtual reality headsets. 
   Since I’m visually impaired myself, I’ve had much experience in using many of the assistive technology items over the years. ZoomText was the first program I can remember using that helped me to read small print in text books. When I was in elementary school, I was given a Compaq laptop and I had a specific class set aside to learn and use assistive technology. I had a visual impairment helper who made sure all of my teachers were aware of my visual impairments, and to make sure I received all of the accommodations allowed to me in the chassroom. 
# How AT Helps Me and Others on a daily basis. Blog introduction and Background. Assistive Technology blog posts for ICT based solutions for visually impaired students and workers.
	Although many use the assistive technology products to help them in school and in everyday life, people who don’t use this technology are unaware of how crucial it is to visually impaired individuals' success. For example, when I was in the fifth grade, I used my Compaq laptop to type out the spelling words, which included a ‘Spell Check’ option if enabled. I’m unable to read or write cursive, and my handwriting is not the best. It's very difficult for me to write by hand and make it neat enough to be able to read. Being introduced to a laptop was the best and easiest way to complete my school work. I used this example, because I was accused of cheating on my spelling tests by my teacher, who decided to call my mom and raise the idea of me using spell check on my tests. I’ve always been great at grammar and spelling, so this came as a surprise to my mom, and she was furious that my fifth grade teacher would call her and accuse me of cheating, when I simply used the laptop to make taking the spelling test easier and more efficient. This is a great example of those without visual impairments not having a full understanding of why people with visual impairments use such equipment and how it truly helps them in school and everyday life. 
	There are many different types of assistive technologies that people with visual impairments use. Including eyeglasses or contact lenses, magnifiers for viewing small objects, smart boards, which I remember using for the first time in middle school, bold paper used for reading small print, enlarged calculators, and even smart canes. After researching the various types of assistive technology, I found that the five most popular items include smart canes, Reading assistance software, speech-to-text software, smart glasses and even virtual reality headsets. Smart canes are equipped with sensors and technology-powered brains in order to help visually impaired people feel comfortable and safe while being out in public. Although I’ve never used a walking or smart cane, I have a friend who’s also visually impaired who used a walking cane in high school to help him get around the building. Reading assistance software is popular today and helps the visually impaired when using computers, smartphones and audio books. When I was in school there weren’t these types of technologies, although books on tape were beginning to become popular, but they had to be used with a tape cassette which was very large and old-school. Speech-to-text software is used to help the visually impaired to communicate with people, writing and studying. The closest to this technology that I got was having my visual impairment helper read exam questions to me out loud in a separate room, which made test taking easier for me, as my eyes didn’t get tired after a lot of reading. Smart glasses are becoming very popular for visually impaired people, and there are many different types of smart glasses available. These include smart glasses with magnifiers, lights to brighten up dark text and bioptic glasses, which are made for the visually impaired to give them an opportunity to get a driver’s license. I use them to drive, but getting a driver’s license for visually impaired individuals is much more difficult and intense than people who receive driver’s licenses that don’t have any visual limitations. In order for me to receive mine, I had to read a large driver’s textbook, take multiple tests on all of the readings, completed several hours of special driver’s training, and a difficult driving exam. Although it took me some time to get used to these glasses, which are basically aviator glasses with a large hole in the top corner that features a telescope used for making driving easier for the visually impaired. The telescope is used for looking ahead for any road issues, street lights, upcoming stop signs, looking both ways for cars approaching as I attempt to turn out of a neighborhood or busy intersection, and they are used for anything that is important to have clear visuals for while driving around town. This is my favorite type of assistive tool for the visually impaired, although it’s technically not technologically advanced, it acts as a form of technology and is the only reason I have my driver’s license. 
# What I envision could be done differently in the future to improve learning for visually impaired students of all ages and grades
	My issue introduction and background can help visually impaired students and workers collaborate through ICT based blogs and solutions to help improve their lives. Although there have been many great improvements to assistive technology throughout my academic journey, I feel one main idea I came up with could solve some accessibility problems for underprivileged children and adults when using assistive technology is desperately needed. Assistive technology is available through the Kentucky Office for the Blind, with offices around the state, as well as elementary, middle and high school resources for students with visual impairments. Universities also have resources, however, I believe that creating what I call “Visually Impairment Learning Labs and chat rooms” that provide all of the necessary assistive technology, equipment, enlarged books, text and other learning devices, as well as teacher resources used for test taking and helping students receive all of their accommodations they need, provide them with all of the assistive technology needed, and helps them with contacting their teachers and professors to make sure all of their visual impairment needs are met without too many issues. The lab would be in a large building, which could have computer labs with enlargement software on every computer, as well as enlarged printer paper and an opportunity to rent out a laptop for the semester, free of charge. I’d also like the visually impaired lab to provide a library made specifically for visually impaired students, a test taking center, tutoring center, another rental service for assistive technology such as smart canes, walking canes, bioptic and smart glasses and even virtual reality glasses for those who want to have some fun with advanced technology. The final installment I can think of right now is to have a bioptic driving program installed in all public and private schools, which provide the driver’s training similar to what I was taught, driving instructors who are specifically trained to teach bioptic driving, give driving exams to visually impaired students, and even help them to get their own driver’s license. Although bioptic glasses aren’t technically technology, they are used in many different professions, including the medical field. There are many other ideas I could form for my visually impaired lab idea, but that’s all I can think of at the moment.
# Social Aspects Mental Health And Assistive Technology 
I decided to do more extensive research regarding differences between introverts and extroverts, as well as expanding the research into my infographic, and adding boys and girls into the research and into my created infographic. According to keydiferences.com when a person is very reserved and does not open up or socialize easily, he or she is considered an introvert. However, when a person is social, very talkative, and makes friends easily and quickly, he or she is considered an extrovert. I also found introverts find spending time alone enjoyable, they prefer small and more intimate gatherings, tend to process his or her thoughts before expressing them out loud, tend to have a smaller group of friends, spend more time reflecting on different outcomes before coming to final decisions, and introverts are more in need of downtime before and after socializing with a group of people. Extroverts feel energized and refreshed after attending social gatherings, when a big event occurs, extroverts want to text or call a friend or family member to discuss it, prefers working in groups than individually, enjoys talking to complete strangers and feels comfortable around them, as well as having hobbies that mainly revolve around social gatherings and events. Extroverts are much more social and outgoing as well. According to the same article on ie.com there are advantages and disadvantages to each personality type.
# Conclusion: Closing statement and Blog ideas
	After giving a brief overview of what it truly means to be visually impaired, what assistive technology is defined as, and the many different types of assistive technology available for students, I wanted to quickly close this by expressing the importance of assistive technology for the visually impaired in not only learning environments, but in everyday life environments and situations as well. I chose this particular type of technology because I can personally relate to being visually impaired and I’ve used most of the assistive technology I mentioned earlier in this episode. Although vast improvements are being made each and every day, I still feel the need to discuss this in a fun, educational way and to also make people who may not be too familiar with what it truly means to be visually impaired, even if it may sound obvious in the name. I also feel it is important to advocate for free assistive technology and resources for all levels of the education system, especially underprivileged school districts, but including every school district and college university in America.
					

                           References
Assistive technology for the visually impaired: Examples and development specifics. ITRex. (2022, February 9). Retrieved March 22, 2023, from https://itrexgroup.com/blog/assistive-technology-for-visually-impared-examples-development-tips/#

Overview of assistive technology for families with a child with blindness or low vision. FamilyConnect. (2023, January 25). Retrieved March 22, 2023, from https://familyconnect.org/assistive-technology/an-overview/

What is at? Assistive Technology Industry Association. (n.d.). Retrieved March 22, 2023, from https://www.atia.org/home/at-resources/what-is-at/

United Nations. (n.d.). Assistive technology: A “life changer” for those most in need | UN news. United Nations. https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/05/1118212

Canvas. Canvas | University of Kentucky. (n.d.). https://www.uky.edu/canvas/


Deeds, K., University, N., Buckles, A., Wagner, T., Slagter, A., Fernandes, B., Ritzi, E., McHenry, M., Bennington, D., Weeks, K., Cholette, A., Henson, K., Benton, A., Martinez, G., Valdez, L., Paige, D., & craig_rebelmouse. (2019, October 17). Introverts vs. extroverts. The Odyssey Online. Retrieved April 9, 2023, from https://www.theodysseyonline.com/introverts-vs-extroverts
Dimochkino. (2022, December 8). Introvert vs extrovert: FACTS & differences [comparison guide]. HIGH5 Strengths Test. Retrieved April 9, 2023, from https://high5test.com/introvert-vs-extrovert-differences/#:~:text=Women%20are%20 more%20 extroverted%20than,3.
Lepore, M. (n.d.). How to improve teamwork: The introversion/extroversion variable. Whole Brain® Thinking Blog. Retrieved April 9, 2023, from https://blog.thinkherrmann.com/how-to-improve-teamwork-the-introversion/extroversion-variable
S, S. (2019, June 27). Difference between introvert and Extrovert (with comparison chart). Key Differences. Retrieved April 9, 2023, from https://keydifferences.com/difference-between-introvert-and-extrovert.html
Strong, R., & Greene, S. (2022, May 26). Are you an introvert, extrovert, or in the middle? how to tell, plus pros and cons of each. Insider. Retrieved April 9, 2023, from https://www.insider.com/guides/health/mental-health/introvert-vs-extrovert 


